+++
castegories = []
date = "2016-07-09T11:22:44-05:00"
description = ""
draft = false
tags = []
thumbnail = "images/togaf9.png"
title = "TOGAF 9 Certified"

+++
This is a post from my old blog that I'm reposting here.


# Overview

I just passed The Open Group’s TOGAF 9 Certification.  The test required me to have an understanding of the TOGAF 9.1 specification along with being to able to apply it to certain scenarios typicaly as a lead architect.  It consisted of 2 parts: Part 1 is 40 multiple choice questions and Part 2 are 8 scenario based questions.  The total time for both parts is 150 minutes.

# Preparation

My company sponsored a 5 day course through their learning academy.
My company also sponsored me going through the PSU EA Graduate Certificate Program
I also had an Enterprise Architecture Capstone for the World Bank as part of my masters program
One week of studying and taking pratice tests right before the exam
Final Thoughts

The TOGAF test asks very specific questions when it comes to the ADM.  The ADM and it’s steps should be known by heart.  Once I entered the testing room, I immediately drew the ADM on my writing board.

I would say that going through the PSU EA Graduate Program prepared me very well for the TOGAF.  The Graduate Program goes a lot more in depth in application and documentation than TOGAF.  The 5 day course I don’t think necessary to past the test.  I think just reading the TOGAF 9.1 specification is good enough.  Part 1 is all about memorization and if you use commons sense in Part 2, you will pass.  They discussed artifacts in Part 2 that I was unfamiliar with.  But you have access to the TOGAF 9.1 specification during the test, so I was able to easily look them up.

Overall, I’m glad I passed and just another thing to add to my resume.  I’m not a practicing Enterprise Architect, so I won’t be applying the TOGAF daily.  But it will be good to reference in conversations with my customers and clients.
